[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH: In my last
conversation with Jerry Wills,
we explored anomalous
treasure that
was in the American Southwest
and then spirited away
by the Smithsonian Institute.
In today's talk, we're going
to look at what appeared
to have been a time portal.
And we had to abruptly end our
last conversation, because we
were having so much
fun I wasn't noticing
we were running out of time.
And we were at a really juicy
point in the conversation.
We were talking about
the various beings--
and this, I think,
plays into the story
we're going to talk about
today-- that have been
discovered by way of artifacts.
We're talking about
the American Southwest
is strewn with anomalous
history, giants of all kinds,
technologies that
shouldn't have existed,
pearls around someone--
thousands of pearls strewn
around a woman who is tens of
thousands of years old perhaps.
I mean, none of this makes any
sense from our history books,
certainly.
But then it got us to
the very last subject
we were on, which is
the notion of ETs,
and that various of the
Native American cultures
really had a very active
relationship with their star
brothers, and believed
they were their ancestors.
That took us to the
ones living underground,
and all these things that
have been found underground.
Then the final question was, is
it possible that the ETs might
be our true Native
Americans, in that sense,
if they've been living
underground here as
long as humanity has?
And you started
to say something,
and I cut you off because
we ran out of time.
>>JERRY WILLS: Well,
what I was going
to say is that how we
examine who the ETs are
might need to be really
closely thought about,
carefully thought about,
because you're right.
What if the Native Americans
are in some respect,
some aspect, the ETs--
and I know for some people
it's going to be a
bit of a stretch.
But when you take a look
at what some of the legends
are about the brothers from the
stars, the people who assisted
and did things, we've come
across quite a few very strange
stories.
>>REGINA: Oh yeah, and even
to Quetzalcoatl, and yeah,
the notion of being oriented
toward Sirius and Orion
from indigenous peoples--
cave drawings, ancient.
>>WILLS: Well, one of the things
that I ran across many years
ago before I ever got involved
in doing any serious research
with this was up in the
Four Corners region.
There's a place called Shiprock.
And it's just this feature.
It's in the middle of an
otherwise barren plain.
But it looks in the distance
like a large, several-masted
sailing ship just sitting there.
It's a very huge feature.
It is just gigantic.
You can see it from
many miles away.
The closer you get,
the more you notice.
It's actually what
I'm pretty sure is
a volcanic crater of some
sort, like the spout part.
Well, I wanted to find
out more about it.
So I started making inquiries.
And what I was told is that
out it's hollow on the inside,
clear to the sky, and that there
is a passageway from outside
to inside.
The Zunis know about
this, and that's
part of their religious
understanding, their mythology,
if we can call it that, that
the people from the stars
brought them to that place.
And before they allowed them
to go out onto the land,
they went out onto the land
and prepared it for them.
And what that means
is anyone's guess.
But when it was
time, then they were
allowed to exit this feature
and go out and start the Zuni
culture.
You also have the Hopi.
At the end of the last
world, the third world,
they went underground
and they were taken
care of by the Ant People.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>WILLS: And then
when it was safe,
the ant people opened it up
and they came back outside,
and then they started
their culture.
And you have varying
degrees of similar stories,
not just in the Southwest
but all around the world.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>WILLS: And we've tried to
understand beyond the metaphor
what this really is saying.
I mean, it's easy to come
up with some conjectures.
Take a look at the Whitley
Strieber ET presence.
Then you could say,
eh, that kind of looks
like an Ant Person.
But when you take
a look at the Zunis
and who they say brought them
down, they were like people.
And if you take a
look at, who was it,
the folks up in Montanas, they
talk about these godlike beings
that help them.
So it isn't any one
particular type of being.
>>REGINA: No.
It seems to be many.
And there's no-- when
you first said maybe
we need to look at the
definition of this term
"ET," if these are beings
that have been here all along,
you can't exactly say
they're extraterrestrial.
They might be subterranean, but
they are part of this terrain
just as we are.
And as we stumble
across these remains
and what we're
calling anomalies,
pretty soon-- there are
so many stories now,
we can't really call
them anomalies anymore.
I think we have to say we
simply need to take a deeper
look into our true history,
which is what we're attempting
to do in this whole
suite of shows
that we're doing here on this.
>>WILLS: Well, and that's what
we try to do at Xpeditions TV,
is take a look at what has
been obscured or otherwise just
outright hidden away and
develop a new understanding
of where we came from, perhaps.
>>REGINA: Yes, because it seems
that the elite-- whether you
call them bloodlines, or whether
you call them brotherhoods
or whatnot-- of this
planet throughout history
have tended to sequester
that information.
I said this before.
It doesn't necessarily mean
it's all for evil purpose.
Maybe they genuinely
thought, people
aren't quite
sophisticated enough
to embrace that there might
be another culture living
under their feet.
It could be something as
simple as not giving people
credit for having the
intelligence they have.
It could be something
as simple as making
sure to exploit the
situation completely
for whatever may
be gained from it
before anyone else
has access to it.
There are probably many
motives for keeping
this information hidden.
>>WILLS: One of the things that
Kathy came up with that I found
extraordinary were the tenets
of what modern archeology is all
about, how it was
originally put into place--
>>REGINA: Share with us.
>>WILLS: And that was done
with, as I recall, John Wesley
Powell, who was putting
these pieces in place
for what archeology would be.
And it also had to do with
the Smithsonian Institute.
[SIGHING]
As I recall, it would
not be a history
that would navigate into any
arena that would subjugate
what was written in the Bible.
>>REGINA: That is true.
That would be true.
>>WILLS: And if it did, then it
would be destroyed or ignored.
And if it was destroyed, of
course it would be ignored.
And this is something that has
happened time and time again so
far as we've felt why it
would be important for history
to be reflected
against the Bible.
It's understandable
why somebody might
be in the mindset to do that.
You have people
today that want to--
>>REGINA: Well, still think
humanity is 6,000 years old.
There's a point at which you
have to say, come on now.
Can we just open
it up a little bit?
>>WILLS: Well, there are
all kinds of folks out there
that are wanting their
view of the world
to be the view of the world
that's salient and accepted.
But when it comes to
things like the giants--
>>REGINA: The Ant People.
>>WILLS: The Ant People.
These stories that are from
the Native American cultures--
which, incidentally, many of
these stories are lost to time.
Only a few of them remain.
And it was even a felony
to keep the stories alive.
They kept it alive
through their dances.
And if they did a dance, well--
>>REGINA: And some of the
artwork-- cave drawings.
>>WILLS: There's a Native
American group in Nebraska,
where Kathy is
from, and they have
a piece of parchment--
it's leather actually,
not parchment-- that has
all these drawings on it
about the different stars and
where people come and so forth.
And every so often, when
it gets old and tattered,
they make a new one, and
they draw it and so forth.
And this is part of
their historical culture.
Well, you take a look
back 100 years ago,
that was foolishness.
It's against the Bible.
Burn it.
And a lot of these
things were destroyed.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>WILLS: So it's an
unfortunate thing.
But why is it, in
our modern time,
there are pieces that are
absolute evidence that
would lead us in a different
direction of thinking,
that these pieces would be
absconded with and hidden away
from view?
And I know we're going to
talk about the portals,
but in this particular arena,
we found something-- Kathy found
something-- that is so
absolutely extraordinary,
and it's completely ignored.
The evidence is completely
destroyed, gone.
And it's done so to keep
any inquiry from being
made in this direction.
>>REGINA: Now, is this something
we haven't talked about before?
>>WILLS: Well, I
don't think we have.
We did do a press release
on this a couple of years
ago, largely ignored.
What she discovered--
well, first of all--
>>REGINA: This is
not the thing we're
going to talk about at
the end of the show.
It's a whole other thing?
>>WILLS: This is a
whole other thing.
>>REGINA: Surprise me.
>>WILLS: Well, you see, on
top of a mountain in Bolivia,
a few years ago when
we were in Bolivia,
it was reported that there
was a human footprint found
in sandstone.
This was, now, we're looking
at seven, eight years ago.
For five years,
Kathy did research
to try and figure out
the details on this.
We found out who
the archaeologist
was working at Smithsonian.
We found out very
little, just that it
was something that
was found, and we
were led off in a
direction completely away
from where it
actually was located.
And that was done intentionally.
>>REGINA: Sure.
>>WILLS: They didn't
know who we were,
and I understand
why they did it.
After five years, she
discovered this information.
I had to have
languages translated
and so forth, and thank
god for Google Translate,
because it helped her.
We were hiding away
from some terrorists
in the jungles of
Peru, and she's
back at her computer in
the middle of the jungle
with a satellite uplink
typing in, trying
to track down what was this.
It was a human
footprint in sandstone.
She found it.
It was on top of a
mountain, of all places.
And she found all the
details we needed.
We immediately booked
a flight and went.
When we got there, the
footprint had been sawed out
of the stratum of sandstone.
We climbed this 17,000-foot
mountain hand over fist to get
there to document it.
It was gone.
We were disappointed.
It was a hell of a
journey, very difficult.
And she says, if there was
one, there's got to be others.
And sure enough, she found two
more that no one knew existed.
Having scampered around the
peaky point of a mountain,
climbing in crevices and
hanging on for her life,
she found two more footprints.
One of them was very
clearly a footprint.
The other was pretty
rough, eroded.
So the point here
of all this isn't
that she found
something remarkable,
but that when this evidence
is brought forward,
it's completely ignored.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>WILLS: And we've
run across this kind
of circumstance with others
who have found things
as well, others who have found
equally remarkable things.
Now, keep in mind, this
stratum of sandstone
is somewhere between three
million and 12 million years
old.
And it's a human footprint
with a very characteristic
human foot impression.
>>REGINA: How did
that even happen?
>>WILLS: Under the most
unusual of circumstances.
The only way it
could happen is--
>>REGINA: The sandstone
had to be liquid.
>>WILLS: It was.
And at one time, at 17,000
feet, it was once a marsh.
We're talking
millions of years ago.
No one really knows how
old this was, except
that it was at
least three million.
>>REGINA: That it could
have even withstood
all of the movement of wind and
such of the time is amazing.
>>WILLS: Yeah.
And it's just in our age
that it became available.
>>REGINA: And this has
come up in conversations
with Michael Cremo as well.
>>WILLS: We got ahold of
Michael Cremo and told him.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>WILLS: And Cremo was
actually quite interested
in helping us to figure
out where it was at,
but he didn't even
have access to it.
He reported on this.
This is part of our
conception of research.
>>REGINA: And that
changes, certainly,
the time frame of human history,
if you're going about three
to 12 million.
But if you start going into
more esoteric science circles--
and I don't mean just esoterica,
but esoteric science circles--
humanity is very,
very, very ancient.
>>WILLS: It's very ancient.
>>REGINA: Beyond what we
can comprehend at this time.
We've gone through
various iterations.
>>WILLS: There are many.
I don't know how
many, but I know there
are quite a number of them.
In a dig at Tiwanaku,
we were there
with researchers,
archaeologists who were digging.
They went down, oh gosh,
it must have been 35,
40 feet in this one
particular area.
And Tiwanaku is a place-- when
we first started going there,
it was completely uncontrolled.
No one was paying
much attention to it.
It was an unusual
place-- barely anything
to be seen, and so difficult
to get to at the time
that it was a real
effort to get to it.
Going down 30 meters, they
went through various layers
of civilization
from sophistication
down to primitive.
But then at some point,
the last, I don't know,
say 10 feet-- and 10 feet
represents a lot of edge--
they went from ancient
and unsophisticated back
to sophistication
back to something
even more sophisticated than
what they'd ever found before.
They had to just throw it
all back in and cover it up,
because that isn't
supposed to exist.
So you have a conceited effort
to keep these things away
from the mainstream.
This footprint that
was sought out is gone.
We tracked it as far as
we could, and it was gone.
We have no idea.
They had a press conference
where they showed it
in Bolivia, and it was gone.
>>REGINA: No, this is
just unbridled arrogance
on the part of those who think
that the world is still such
as they believe it or their
ancestors believed it to be,
that people are that ignorant.
They can't put pieces
together themselves anymore.
They can't handle truth.
That is so arrogant.
It's almost beyond
comprehension that anyone
would stop the flow of
knowledge at this point
in our human history.
>>WILLS: If we knew the
reality of our past,
we might have a
different future.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
I believe the same thing.
>>WILLS: Because we're
not who we think we are.
And that takes us all the
way back to the other side
of the world where we
were at just a moment ago
with the Native
Americans and their claim
that they come from the stars.
The people in South America,
the Native Americans there too,
also say that they
came from the stars.
>>REGINA: The aboriginals
in Africa, as well.
I mean, sorry, Australia.
Yes.
Africa-- the Dogons, in
connection to Sirius as well.
Yes, on and on.
>>WILLS: So you have this
belief by these folks.
It's a belief at this
point, because they
don't have any solid
evidence to say,
yeah, we can say this is
such and this is such,
so now we know this.
>>REGINA: Yeah, we buried
the spaceship over here.
>>WILLS: But as far as they're
concerned, they know it.
For us, it's just their belief.
>>REGINA: And again, this is
very, very ancient history
that has been passed down
from their ancestors.
>>WILLS: Right.
So who were these people?
Were they really from the stars?
I'm beginning to
wonder if they were.
>>REGINA: That's the question.
And that's what's come up in
several of my last interviews.
Really?
Or are they from here,
just like we are?
>>WILLS: Or is there something
even larger than that?
>>REGINA: Interdimensional.
>>WILLS: Possibly.
See, what we're sort of finding
is that human life did not
originate on this world.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>WILLS: It came
here from the stars.
But when?
And what happened?
Well, let's take it at that
point for just a second.
If it didn't originate
here, it automatically
insinuates that they had the
ability to go other places.
And if that's the case, then
the people who were left here,
well, they became
citizens of this world.
And there were others
who weren't, who
came back and forth.
>>REGINA: And now they are.
>>WILLS: Exactly.
>>REGINA: I mean, as I
view it, there really
are no truly indigenous humans.
We all have a bit
of some other seed.
>>WILLS: And then there's
all kinds of different ways
this can play out as far as,
oh, well, maybe they were
created to be the workforce.
We've heard of that
with the Anunnaki.
>>REGINA: But that's just
a tiny pixel of history.
That is not human history.
And I've argued that point.
>>WILLS: I'm not so
sure the Anunnaki is
a proper word for who these
people are, because when you
take a look way back
into the past-- something
we'll get into a
little bit-- then
you start realizing
that, wait a minute,
we're talking about people
using terms that are completely
incorrect, because there's
historical evidence that
absolutely shows that
it's not correct to use
that term for those people.
It's something else, and
we don't know what it is.
>>REGINA: But we're in the
Wild West of this rediscovery.
There's no one laying down any
bread crumbs for us, per se.
Well, there have been actually,
in some cases, the Egyptians.
But by and large, we're
having to figure it all out.
And some people get
all excited about this
and are attached to
that story, and vice--
and it's this over here.
So you're right, I
think things have
been kind of misappropriated
in terms of terms, titles,
everything.
>>WILLS: So that brings us
to the Native Americans,
and them progressing through
time, having survived god
only knows what kind
of circumstances
that this planet has
faced in the past.
We have kind of
an inkling of it.
>>REGINA: An
underground species were
the ones that would have
tended to survive the surface
cataclysms, too.
>>WILLS: Well, they would have
had to have gone underground
to survive.
>>REGINA: Right, exactly.
So there are lineages
that have existed
throughout these cataclysms.
>>WILLS: And I'll go into
that in just a few minutes.
It will surprise you,
because it surprised us.
The thing that I find
fascinating about this
is that all of
these cultures refer
to very unusual and
strange circumstances
surrounding different places
and different features
on the landscape.
Some places are-- what
would you call it?
Holy places, sacred places.
Why is this a sacred place?
Why isn't that over
there a sacred place?
We're only now starting
to ask that question,
and really wanting
to know the answer.
And of course, it's wrapped up
in the mythology of the people
who are telling us about it.
Folks go to Sedona.
There's a vortex over there.
There's a vortex over here.
>>REGINA: Native Americans
think, oh, those white people
are crazy.
No Native American
would have ever lived
in the middle of those vortexes.
And I live smack-dab in
the middle of all of them.
>>WILLS: Yeah.
And right outside of
Sedona, you have a place
where a lot of strange
things have happened,
where people have disappeared
into the middle of nothing,
and houses have appeared
and gone away again,
like you're looking
back into the past.
There are places like that
in South America, too.
>>REGINA: In the Indian former
home of the Apache and Yavapai
at Palatki and you just
soft focus your vision,
you see some of the previous
inhabitants walking the land
still.
I've seen all kinds
of strange things
out there-- births of babies
happening, all kinds of things.
Still very present.
>>WILLS: And these aren't
imaginary or hallucinatory
things.
I know, because I've seen
things like this too.
And I had to question
my own sanity
when I would see these things.
Even UFOs-- whatever UFO
really means or what it is,
it's an unidentified
thing flying around.
That's a classic term.
But lights moving
through the sky,
and suddenly, poof, they're
gone, or suddenly poof,
they're on the ground.
And they move up a little bit.
Poof, they're gone.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
A lot of people
see that in Sedona.
>>WILLS: But back to
the Native Americans,
Geronimo was said to
show up way over there,
and the next thing you know,
he's over here, way over here.
And how did he
get there so fast?
They thought that he
had some kind of magic.
Well, science that
isn't understood
is indistinguishable from magic.
Doing something that can't
be explained is magical.
How did he go from
point A to point B?
Well, I think we might
have gotten a clue.
You see, we ran
across this story.
Ron Quinn wrote this story.
I think it was in
"Fate Magazine."
And it was quite a tall
tale, but a good one.
>>REGINA: Yes?
>>WILLS: And eventually,
Kathy-- she runs across things.
She's always looking
for these things.
And she says, you aren't
going to believe this one.
We have to go and
check this out.
I read it out loud.
We're both sitting there.
I'm just shaking my head, going
oh my god, this is astonishing.
It took us a couple of
years to find Ron Quinn.
And when we did,
we found him to be
an amazing character, a
really, really nice man,
but very secretive.
He'd spent most of his
life as a treasure hunter.
He found Spanish gold.
He found Spanish mines.
But he also found a lot of
other strange anomalous things,
things he took pictures--
>>REGINA: Poking around in the
American Southwest, you will.
>>WILLS: This is a man who
was involved in the film
industry in Hollywood
and walked away
from it to go hunt for geodes
and lost Spanish treasure
with his brother.
And they went up
into this one region
looking for minerals
and Spanish treasure,
supplementing their income
by digging up geodes
and selling it to the people
who would like to buy a geode
and take it home.
Well, on a nearby
farm-- and they
were actually
ranches, not farms--
there were a lot
of different kinds
of Native Americans
working these places,
and folks from Mexico.
And one day, Ron Quinn and his
brother passed this fellow,
a Native American broke down
on the side of the road.
And so they helped him out.
Normally, Native
Americans would have just
been like, to hell with him.
Just go on.
We don't have anything
to do with them.
They're just dirt.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>WILLS: But not for Ron
Quinn and his brother.
They stopped, helped him
out, got him going again,
and he was grateful.
A few weeks later
this fellow showed up,
because they were near
a ranch he worked.
He sit down told them a story.
It was only a story that was
shared within their tribe,
because they were really close
to where the story took place.
He says, you know about that
place over there, don't you?
No.
So he told them the story.
And the story basically was
that there were some Indians
playing, and they were running
around these rock features.
And one of them jumped through
this arch, and he vanished.
So they were pretty
shocked about this.
They couldn't find him,
didn't know what had happened.
They were afraid of it.
They went back, told the tribe.
The tribe comes.
And they're trying to figure
out what happened to him.
I thought it was a
rabbit or a chicken--
>>REGINA: It's a rabbit.
>>WILLS: A rabbit through
there, and it vanished.
>>REGINA: Yeah, a
woman, a grandma,
went threw the rabbit
through to see if there
was any truth in it, right?
It disappeared.
>>WILLS: It vanished.
So this fellow is
relating this story.
And he says, there's a place
right over there down this way,
and so forth.
So Ron Quinn and his brother
had been searching for geodes,
and they decided to
go check that out.
They did.
And the arch was there.
And they didn't want
to do much around it.
>>REGINA: They didn't
try to jump through?
>>WILLS: No, they
were afraid of it.
But they had some very
strange things happen there.
For example, one afternoon
they were sitting there,
tired of digging for geodes.
Keep in mind, this is a plateau
in the middle of nowhere,
with big mountains all around
and a view to the valley
floor off in this direction.
It's just sort of
flat and desert.
This plateau is made
entirely of crystal.
Now, this is a
crystalline plateau.
>>REGINA: This is really a
critical piece of the story.
>>WILLS: Yeah, it is.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>WILLS: They look
through the arch,
and what they see on the other
side is that, although it's
cloudy and overcast
where they are, it's not,
the sky is clearer,
and the sun's shining
the same way over there.
It doesn't make any sense.
And in the distance,
they see what
looks like conquistadors
riding by on horses.
And they're sitting there
watching this, fascinated.
Look around the corner, there
isn't anything like that.
It's just the normal view.
They look through the doorway,
and they're seeing this.
Another story-- Ron
Quinn was sitting
on the side of the mountain
after having exhausted himself
trying to find
geodes and minerals,
and just sort of closed
his eyes, took a breath,
opened his eyes, and suddenly
realized he didn't really
understand where he was at.
He was on now the other
side of the plateau.
>>REGINA: I see.
He didn't go through the arch,
but he had made his way around
to the other side.
>>WILLS: It just
popped him over there.
Another example of this was
he was there one morning
and looked up and saw
someone over there
on that hillside with a truck,
with binoculars looking at him.
So he took his binoculars
and looked back,
and it looked like
he was looking
at an older version of himself,
which kind of freaked him out.
He put his binoculars
down, looked back,
and there's no one there.
Fast forward many years later,
he's now over there in a truck
looking at somebody
sitting on the plateau.
This wrinkle in time-- it's
a very, very strange place,
extraordinarily.
And Kathy wants to
go check this out.
So do I. And I figured
we needed to find out
what the reality is for
Xpeditions TV and all
of our viewers.
So we take off and
do this with a team.
When we get out there,
it's now many years
past the point when Ron
Quinn had been there.
And we want to find
the arch, and we
want to find the
plateau, and so forth.
We searched for days.
We've made several
trips down there.
Could not find this place,
even with Ron Quinn's map.
>>REGINA: Did you know
what had already happened
to the previous arch?
You weren't aware of
it yet at this time?
>>WILLS: Not at that point.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>WILLS: Ron said he thought
the arch had crumbled
and was gone now.
But he said there should be some
evidence of where it had been.
So we're looking.
We don't find a plateau.
We don't find the
arch, none of it.
Believe me, this is such a
difficult place to move around.
And it's really remote.
Finally, Kathy and I
climbed up to the top
of one of the
mountains-- nothing
like Peru, where it's
14,000 or 17,000 feet,
but still, a few thousand feet.
>>REGINA: And it was hot.
>>WILLS: It was hot.
Very dry.
And there it was.
So we made our way down,
walked across the arch,
investigated it.
It's getting late in the day.
We had to leave.
Came back again another time
with a full research team.
And we scoured that area looking
for the arch-- which of course
by now, knowing the map and
where it had been placed,
we knew it was gone.
We wanted to find
some evidence of it,
or if there was anything really
strange about this place.
It felt very weird.
>>REGINA: And again, the
presence of all this crystal.
>>WILLS: Yeah, all this crystal.
It's a very unique feature.
What happened during
that time is that we
discovered a second arch.
And that second arch, according
to Ron Quinn, was never there.
>>REGINA: And he
knew where you were.
You were in the same spot.
So somewhere nearby
was the remains
that you couldn't really
identify of the first arch.
>>WILLS: It was just little
nubby things all broken down.
>>REGINA: And yet, a
second arch appears?
>>WILLS: Suddenly, there's a
second arch right over here.
>>REGINA: Those
don't just appear.
>>WILLS: So we're
asking Ron Quinn,
what do you make of this?
And he says, well, I don't know.
I lived there for three years.
I was all over every
inch of that landscape.
There is not that thing there.
It wasn't there.
This is a recent thing.
So it's a big mystery.
>>REGINA: And it didn't
look like something
that could be
constructed by humans
out of the native-- it looks
like an odd but natural arch.
>>WILLS: Yeah.
It's just like any other
weathered, sandstone-looking
arch thing.
But he swears up and
down it was never there.
It lends to the mystery.
But what starts
getting very peculiar
is what's happening
for us and for others.
For us, we are camped
out on a hill overlooking
the valley, which you have to
enter to go a long way down
to get to where this is at.
At night, there came up a
tremendous wind and storm.
It was so strong, it
nearly blew over the van.
It completely took all the
tents and just flattened them,
sent them sailing
across this landscape.
We were pretty frightened
by it all, so frightened
we decided we were
going to leave.
We wanted to find out, what
in the world kind of storm
was this?
The wind was coming from the
direction of this plateau.
So we got a hold of the Border
Patrol, National Weather
Service, and both of
them have bases nearby
and within a couple of miles.
And they have patrols
out all the time there.
And they said,
there was no wind.
There was no wind last night.
What are you talking about?
Both the National Weather
Service and the Border Patrol.
We said, well, it was so strong
it nearly blew over the van.
So that's a point of
curiosity with this.
The other thing are the
lights that were the UFOs.
I don't know.
But they were balls of light
that were floating up and down
this valley.
I've seen UFOs in different
parts of the world,
and this was just very typical
of things that I've seen.
It was like magnesium
burning they so bright.
But the strangest
thing is that there
was a fellow who must have
either read Ron's report
or saw our video.
He wanted to go see for himself.
He's a loner, an explorer,
and part-time treasure hunter,
and he has his rifle and his
sidearm and his super duper
camping equipment,
and he's ready.
And he goes, and he
goes right out there
to where the plateau is.
He climbs the mountain like
we did, and he finds it.
And he camps out.
A week later, his
family is wondering
why hasn't he come back.
So they send in
people to go look.
What they find is his rifle,
his sidearm, his belongings,
his tent, his camp.
But they don't find him.
He's just gone and has
never been seen since.
And this sounds like quite a
tall tale, but it's the truth.
This guy's missing.
They contacted Ron Quinn.
They wanted help with it.
No one knows what
happened to this man.
>>REGINA: Because
the original arch
that the original native
men, boys, were passing
and one went through was gone.
The one they threw the
chicken through was gone.
Now, you guys passed
through the little arch.
Nothing anomalous about it?
>>WILLS: I tried using
some of the equipment we
had to test it.
There was nothing really
anomalous about it
at all, except it just
never existed before.
We'd never been there before,
so I can't attest to that.
>>REGINA: But something
in that space--
>>WILLS: Something in that
space very strange is going on.
You can feel it.
It's a tangible sensation.
Some people say, oh, I can
feel the energy of crystals.
When you go walking
around this plateau--
>>REGINA: The whole
thing is crystals.
>>WILLS: The whole
And whether you can
feel it or not--
and we had people with
us who are scientists,
and they're going, there's
something very creepy
about this place, I can't
put my finger on it,
but this feels wrong.
You also find burn
holes in the ground
where it looks like lightning
has just hit in various places
around there.
It's a very strange place.
>>REGINA: You were a
little disappointed
in that after you
came back, you took
all the readings,
magnetic readings
and electrical readings,
and other than some spikes,
there was nothing really
that interesting other
than that arch popped up
out of nowhere seemingly.
>>WILLS: That's the
most remarkable thing
about the whole story for us.
However, one thing
that did happen
for Ron Quinn is
that he had heard
the story from this Native
American about the young man
who went through, and on
a subsequent visit walking
around, once again looking for
mineral deposits and geodes
and whatnot, he
found the remains,
the skeleton, of a
Native American that
was on the far side of the
plateau, still in the of course
now badly decomposed clothing.
And the skeleton is there.
But this young man's
skeleton is lying there.
And it wasn't from the 1800s.
It was probably from the 1940s.
He must have died of
exposure, perhaps.
And he just wondered, could
that have been the young man
who jumped through?
>>REGINA: Interesting.
>>WILLS: So one of the things
that we were curious about
was a story from a tombstone.
I'm sure there are some
people familiar with those.
They said that there
was a pterodactyl flying
over a tombstone
rancher's cattle,
and taking calves and
flying off with them.
And eventually, these
ranchers got fed up with it,
went chasing after it,
shot it with their guns,
brought it back, tacked it
up on the side of a barn,
and now there's a picture.
Well, we eventually
found a picture.
The picture had been printed
in the "Tombstone Gazette,"
I think it was.
But we eventually
found the picture.
And it looks like a
pterodactyl to me.
>>REGINA: It's
like, what the heck?
>>WILLS: Yeah.
But where do that come from?
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>WILLS: And where did
that wind come from?
>>REGINA: Right.
>>WILLS: And could it be--
and this is just theorizing,
speculation-- but
if this portal is
some kind of a gateway between
the past and the present,
it opens up and it
creates a huge vacuum,
or the air pressure
is different.
It would come blowing
right up that valley
to where we were at.
What if some
prehistoric creature
were to have been
caught up in that
and brought forward
in time to the 1800s?
Who knows.
>>REGINA: Well, I mean, these
anomalies-- this whole notion
of the fabric of
time and space is
another thing in these Wild
West years of discovery
that we're in now.
I was doing an interview with
Andrea Perron on her life,
and the home that was
haunted that she lived in.
And to me, the most
fascinating part of that story
is that her mother was
looking at-- I believe
it was her mother, not her
sister; but one or the other--
was looking into their
dining room one day,
and they saw a family who
had lived in that house
maybe 100 years before
sitting at the table dining.
But what was interesting
was the woman at the table
saw her back, looked up
and looked over at her.
And they were
watching each other
from different points in time.
That gave me the shivers,
because who's the ghost then?
The woman back then
was seeing, obviously,
this ghost from the
future looking at her.
Who is that woman?
>>WILLS: Well, the
same with Ron Quinn,
sitting there looking through
binoculars, seeing himself.
>>REGINA: That's
what I'm saying.
That's what brought it up.
>>WILLS: There are
things that are so--
>>REGINA: And these portals
are created somehow,
whether it's
electrical or whatnot.
>>WILLS: Well, and
that kind of brings us
to a point where trying
to understand the fabric
of our reality comes into play.
I'm thinking that we are
living in a world that
is composed of and controlled
by the electrical aspects
of the universe.
>>REGINA: Yes.
That's what they
found in that story.
When those anomalies
were occurring,
their electric bill
would skyrocket
because the entities
on the other side,
it appears they were
able to manifest
in part, at least
in their reality,
with the use of electricity.
That was a very key function
in these manifestations.
>>WILLS: So what we did
is we tried to figure out
what the relationship is
to the electrical anomaly,
the lightning
strikes that we saw.
>>REGINA: In quartz.
>>WILLS: In the quartz,
and all of those.
Where is this place in
the scheme of things?
Someone suggested, have
you looked at lay lines?
So I thought, well, that seems
like a pretty interesting
concept.
So we got a hold of one of
the world's foremost experts
and asked him-- gave
him the GPS coordinates
and said, what do you find about
this place, these coordinates?
He called us back and said,
what did you find there?
I said, well, what did you find?
>>REGINA: A tear
in time and space.
>>WILLS: He says,
that is a point where
six different lines collide.
It was right at the very center.
He says, where you took your
GPS coordinates, at probably
another 30 or 40 feet off to one
side is where all these lines--
>>REGINA: Interesting.
>>WILLS: --completely
just cross each other.
Well, where I was
standing was about 20 feet
from the edge of this
plateau, and the very center
was about 40 feet
towards the other part.
I didn't go walk away back over
here and take a GPS reading.
I just needed to
know where I was.
And I told him then
what we had found
and what we were investigating.
And he says, well, there
are very few places
like that in the world
where these lines of energy
of this magnitude
actually cross.
That's a real special place.
So we have that as
a point of inquiry.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And that's interesting,
because the same is noted
with the famous sacred sites.
And as we talked
about yesterday,
the sacred octagonal sites
around the world that
have been created by those who
have passed down knowledge,
and the rituals that
take place in those,
including the ability to
fly beyond time and space--
whether you call it remote
viewing or moving yourself
to another time, you
get to gather knowledge
or whatnot and glimpse.
It appears that the
intersecting points
of ley lines around
the planet have
been where this activity
historically takes place.
And fortunately, this
is out of nowhere.
It took someone like
you and Ron Quinn
to dig this information up.
But some of them are
laying in plain sight
as little temples, little
chapels, for people to go to.
>>WILLS: And that's where
our research took us.
We then started wondering,
there's got to be other places.
So we talked to our
friends who are Apache.
And they were
telling us about, oh,
there's these places over here.
But you can't go there.
You're a white guy.
So, what does it take
to become an Apache?
Well, you can't do that.
You can't go there.
They'll kill you.
But then they told us the
stories about these places.
And it's a place to go to the
past, where you go in here,
you come out over there.
It's like there's no distance
between these points.
>>REGINA: That's
Geronimo's legend.
>>WILLS: Exactly.
Eventually, we were invited to
go and see this for ourselves.
The offer is still open.
We haven't gone.
And we plan to, because where
it is is real surprising.
>>REGINA: It's not under
city hall somewhere.
>>WILLS: No, no.
It's not like that.
But it's in Southern Arizona,
and it's just about 1,000 feet
off the main highway right now.
But it's a place
where you go in,
and you come out somewhere else.
No one knows it's there.
No one has a reason to go.
They're afraid of
rattlesnakes or whatever.
We're not afraid of any of that.
We'll go.
And if it really works,
I'll come back and tell you
how it turned out.
If it doesn't work--
>>REGINA: You'll travel back.
Oh no.
>>WILLS: Or else
I'll come walking up
in just a moment offstage and
say, hi, I'm from the future.
>>REGINA: So
considering the nature
of who you are and your unique
journey on the planet, what
does this show you that might be
unique to who you are compared
to maybe somebody else, what
you might gather from this
or you might remember from
this about the traveling
through time and
space and so forth?
>>WILLS: Well, for me,
it shows that there
are mechanisms in
the universe that
allow for this sort
of thing to occur.
And it isn't unique
to this world.
It's a part of all
planetary systems.
And the people who understand
them or have access,
they can use them as they want.
And perhaps that's how
the people from one
place to another
were able to travel,
and not necessarily in
ships or grand vehicles
but in simply going, I need
to go see my relatives.
Three steps, you're there.
>>REGINA: OK.
And let's forward this story
to the technology of black ops
military operations, and
stories such as the one
that Andrew Basiago tells of
the jump room in Sepulveda,
where certain famous well-known
figures in our history,
some not as well
known-- modern history--
were taken through the
process of time-jumping
through technology,
that technology
has to simply be mimicking
natural forces that
already exist.
>>WILLS: Maybe the
technology is there
to support what's happening.
We have technology in our
home so that we have lights,
and we have a blender and
a telephone and so forth.
But the space that the home
is in was always there.
We've just adapted
the surroundings
to the space that
was always there.
With these things that
Basiago was talking about,
there are so many different--
>>REGINA: Well, they were
used for specific military
applications is the
point, to ascertain--
>>WILLS: But why was it put in
that particular place, you see?
>>REGINA: Well, in
the case of him,
it was the town
square in Santa Fe.
They had them jump there.
But yeah, the point is,
they used technology
to mimic natural phenomena
that may be exotic to us
but perhaps might in the future
will probably be very common.
>>WILLS: What you'll find
is that the technology
is used to control
it, not to create it.
You see, the reason why--
>>REGINA: Yeah,
that makes sense.
>>WILLS: The portal-- you could
go there and see this doorway
on this plateau.
As I understand it, he'd
been up there many times
and seen nothing.
He'd actually gone through,
walked back and forth
very timidly-- nothing.
But then something would
trigger, and he'd look
and suddenly the sky is bright
over there but it's dark here.
>>REGINA: Maybe an
electromagnetic anomaly.
>>WILLS: Some charge
had taken place
to bring this to its
potential for it to function.
>>REGINA: That makes sense,
because you're right.
Technology would be
used only to tame it,
and use it for one's purpose
in a reliable fashion.
>>WILLS: Right.
So you have an off and
on switch, effectively.
>>REGINA: Effectively, yes.
This should be
common in our future,
commonly used and
available, I would think.
Not necessarily desirable.
>>WILLS: Well, it
might not be so bad.
>>REGINA: Well,
I'm just saying--
>>WILLS: I mean, you've
got pictures of people
from black and white
silent films showing
people who seem to be
from the future that
are in these silent films.
How did they get there?
>>REGINA: Exactly.
And then the famous one about
the film "Back to the Future,"
and foretelling
of events of 9/11
and so forth from 40 years
before-- all of that, yeah.
Or 30 years.
It's absolutely fascinating
what the potential is.
But you're saying these natural
phenomena have always existed,
and certain people on the
land and of the land which
would have been
indigenous peoples
have probably been using
them throughout history.
>>WILLS: And the
medicine man-- we'll
call them medicine man
or shaman, whatever--
have a particular
level of awareness
that they had tapped into.
They had a unique talent,
and that unique talent
meant that their awareness
was intact to a point where
they had an understanding--
cause and effect.
What we might find
out, and what I
wanted to go back
and experiment with,
was using the same techniques
I use in healing, sending
that energy out to cause
an effect in this kind
of surrounding, because I
think that what we have here
is an understanding by
these ancient peoples of how
they could control it
just by their presence.
Maybe their presence was telling
them, oh, it's building up.
I can feel it.
It's getting ready to happen.
Now I'll get ready for this.
Or maybe their presence
was, I'm bringing things
to a point where it can occur.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>WILLS: Don't know
what the answer is,
but I think one of those two
has got to be what it is.
And what these situations
are with whoever it--
saying government is trite, but
scientists of some ilk that are
creating a machine that causes
this to be a predictable
event-- is still an application
of awareness in a very long,
extended
way-off-to-the-left-side kind
of realm.
But still, it's there.
And I believe these portals
exist all over the place.
One of the things we
started looking at
were some very anomalous
places in the United States,
one of them being
Joplin, Missouri.
>>REGINA: Really?
That's where my grandpa
is from, Joplin.
OK.
>>WILLS: You've heard
of the Joplin lights.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>WILLS: We went there.
I could not fathom how this
could be something going on
and no one could figure it out.
So we went there with night
vision equipment and lasers
and all the stuff that
we could put together,
and Kathy and I went,
halfway believing
it might just be kind of hokey.
Someone's making a big
mistake, of course.
We have to know, though.
I can tell you, it's one
of the strangest things
I've ever seen.
But what I think
we have uncovered
is that there is
another portal there,
and when it activates you
see these balls of light.
The reason they're
in a specific area
is because that's probably there
right above or in proximity
to where one of
these doorways are.
So we put that
theory to the test
and went driving
around in a very large
and getting larger
and larger square
as best we could-- dirt roads,
back roads, and so forth.
What we discovered is where we
thought that the doorway would
be, the portal, has a fence,
and it's government property.
>>REGINA: Just like
the supposed stargate
at the ancient city
of Ur, in Iraq,
which the Americans built
a massive embassy around
so no one can access it.
That's supposed to be a
well-known ancient stargate
slash portal.
>>WILLS: As we continued
our investigation,
we started coming
to terms with pins
on a map that showed where
these things could be if based
upon this idea, the notion
of these intersecting
lines of energy.
And what we ended up
with was one somewhere
in Southern New Mexico and
Western Texas, in that region.
There is one there.
So we investigated.
sure enough, there is.
No one will tell us
exactly where it is,
but we have enough people
who've said, yeah, it's there.
Nearby, there are footprints
in sandstone that are human,
and there are dinosaur
footprints in sandstone
there, too.
The humans were running.
Is there a connection?
Who knows?
But it's interesting
to consider.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>WILLS: The other
pins on the map
represent churches
and state capitals.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
And that was part
of the discussion--
>>WILLS: --and
government installations.
>>REGINA: --that
I had yesterday.
Exactly, yes.
>>WILLS: So this tells me
that somebody somewhere
knows something.
>>REGINA: Well, we kind
of mentioned this earlier
about this certain
elite factions
that have known a lot
about this for a long time.
And in my interviews
with Cort Lindhal,
we talk about the application
of that knowledge by you
can call them the elite,
the educated-- whatever.
And as you say, it shows up
in those kinds of structures
for particular use.
>>WILLS: And I think
they know how to use it.
I know they go from
point to point using
this as a technique.
So that brings us
to another point,
which is, OK, so if these
are going different points
around the earth, they certainly
are going different worlds,
because it isn't limited.
When you go through
one of these things,
it's not limited to a region.
It is in an infinite place
back to a more finite place.
Distance becomes irrelevant.
And the people
living underground
we were talking about
earlier in the conversation--
how do they get out?
>>REGINA: This may be
one way they manifest.
>>WILLS: And where
do they come from?
And where is a safe place
for people from another world
to go to and then
interact up here?
UFOs possibly are just a part
of ourselves, revisiting this.
I don't know.
>>REGINA: Can be
all of the above.
>>WILLS: Well,
that's exactly it.
You see, what-- I don't
know how much time we have.
>>REGINA: About two minutes.
>>WILLS: Then I'm going to
give it to you very quickly.
We discovered an
event that occurred
on the earth that's documented.
Kathy put the pieces together.
It has to do with
something that occurred
about 50,000 years
ago, and how it all
relates to all of this--
the people from this world
not being from this world,
people that were left here,
deciding to stay here because
something was going to happen,
and by the time it happened
there was very little that they
could do except to survive.
And who the Annunaki
were and who
we are and all these
legends, gods and men-- it
all comes into very clear focus.
I'll bring that to you.
>>REGINA: I'm glad you got to
it, because I was thinking,
you've got to just
tease us a little bit
the last couple minutes of
the show, and you just did.
And so that means
we're having you back.
>>WILLS: Kathy will
be here, and she'll
help me to tell you
this complete story.
>>REGINA: Yeah, I'm
looking forward to it.
Jerry, thank you
so much as always.
Enlightening,
entertaining-- I love it.
>>WILLS: It's been wonderful.
What a privilege.
>>REGINA: If you haven't already
seen my previous interviews
with Jerry, you can find them
here in the Open Mind archives.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."
[THEME MUSIC]